Feature/back end UI (#13)
plentymarkets/plenty-developers-docs: docs/en-gb/modules/back-end-ui/pages/how-to-back-end-ui.adoc

The instructions given on this page require that you have
//ADD new links
xref:https://developers.plentymarkets.com/dev-doc/basics#ide-support[established your IDE] and have xref:https://developers.plentymarkets.com/tutorials/helloworld#introduction[created your first plugins].

If you're new to Angular, check out the link:https://angular.io/tutorial[angular.io tutorial: Tour of Heroes^].

== Downloading the plugin

First of all, you need to download the *Terra-Basic* plugin, which you will use as a template throughout this how-to guide. It includes a basic Angular application and all packages you’re going to use. The Terra Components are already installed as well.
//Insert link when TC documentation is up to date again <<#_terra_components, Terra Components>>

Download or clone the plugin on link:https://github.com/plentymarkets/plugin-terra-basic[GitHub^].

== Setting up Node.js

*Node.js* is required to compile the project. To set it up, proceed as follows:

. Install the link:https://nodejs.org/en/download/[LTS version^].
. Open your command line. This is the terminal on macOS and Linux, or the Command Prompt on Windows.

> . Run *node -v*.
> 
> If you receive a version number as output, node.js has been installed. It should look something like this:
> 
> .Version-number
>        `v14.15.4`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Run *node -v*. +
→ If Node.js was installed correctly, the command line displays the installed version.
```
Eventuell etwas eleganter?

== Compiling the project

To compile the project, carry out the following steps:

. Change directory to the directory of your project.
. Run `npm install`. +
→ All dependencies of the package.json file are installed.
. Run `npm start`. +

> → The project is compiled and shown in your browser on *localhost:3002*.

Reviewer: Macht die Fettformatierung hier Sinn? Oder wären Code-Tags besser?

Author: Ja, du hast Recht - Code-Tags wären hier sinnvoller.

You can change the port in the file `/plugin-terra-basic/config/webpack.dev.js`.

== Creating the PHP environment

> Now you need to employ the UI part in the PHP environment. For this, use the compiled Plugin Terra-Basic as UI part in your plugin and proceed as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now you need to deploy the UI part in the PHP environment. For this, use the compiled Plugin Terra-Basic as UI part in your plugin and proceed as follows:
```
"employ" oder "deploy"?

Author: Ich habe den Text nicht verfasst, bin aber auch schon über das "employ" gestolpert. Ich passe es an.

. To compile the UI project, run `npm run build`. +
→ The `dist` directory is created with the compiled files in it.
. Copy and paste the content of the `dist` directory to your plugin project's `ui` directory.

Once you have completed these steps, set up the `ui.json` file with actions for the different views.

For being able to test your copied UI within the plugin, you can install the extension link:https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/allow-cors-access-control/lhobafahddgcelffkeicbaginigeejlf[Allow-Control-Allow-Origin^] in the Chrome browser.
// ADD NEW LINK

> Alternatively, you can use the xref:https://developers.plentymarkets.com/tools/plentydevtool-introduction[plentyDevTool] to test the UI in any browser.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Alternatively, you can use xref:tools:plentydevtool-introduction.adoc[plentyDevTool] to test the UI in any browser.
```

== Creating the ui.json

Next, create the ui.json

.ui.json
[source,json]
----
include::example$ui.json[]
----

> Once you have reached this part of the how-to guide, you are done with all preparatory steps and can now start implementing the plugin’s functionality.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At this point, you've set up the basic structure of your plugin and compiled the project. This concludes the preparation. You can now start implementing the plugin’s functionality.
```
Sind glaube ich genau 25 Wörter, aber hier ist eine Variante, mit der es keine Warnung geben sollte.

Author: Kling gut.

> == Setting up a local test environment

Reviewer: Es wirkt für mich immer noch komisch, dass direkt nach dem Ende des Setups eine Überschrift mit "Setting up" kommt. Wenn das inhaltlich wirklich so sein soll, dann könntest du vielleicht wenigstens die Überschrift ändern?

Author: Okay, verstehe. Ich überlege mir was.

. Run `npm install` to install all required packages. This may take some time.
. Run `ng serve` to start your local test server.

You can now view your project in your browser on *localhost:3002*. You can change the port in the file */plugin-terra-basic/angular.json*.

.Plugin Terra-Basic
image::plugin-terra-basic-overview.png[Plugin Terra-Basic overview,640,360]

// NOT UP TO DATE === Terra Components

//The `Terra-Components` have been developed for the Terra back end of plentymarkets. The `Terra-Components` are in constant development.
//TO DO: insert link of new TC documentation
//xref:https://developers.plentymarkets.com/terra-doc/icons[Terra icons]
//link:https://material.io/resources/icons/?style=baseline[Material icons^]
//link:https://www.npmjs.com/package/@plentymarkets/terra-components[Npm^]
//link:https://github.com/plentymarkets/terra-components[Github^]

//If you have any issues with the Terra-Components, the fastest way to get a response from the Terra dev team is to create an issue in the link:https://github.com/plentymarkets/terra-components/issues[GitHub repository^].

== Creating a new view

> To create a new view, use link:https://angular.io/cli[`angular’s cli`^].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create a new view, use link:https://angular.io/cli[Angular’s CLI^].
```

> If you have globally installed the cli, you can use it with `ng [command] [parameter]`. Otherwise, you can use it via `npx ng [command] [parameter]`.

Reviewer: Müssen hier irgendwelche Befehle oder Parameter verwendet werden oder nicht? Wenn nicht, würde ich sie nicht als Optionen mit aufführen.

Author: Habe hier Rücksprache mit 2 Devs gehalten. Die Info sollte so bestehen bleiben.

> If you have globally installed the cli, you can use it with `ng [command] [parameter]`. Otherwise, you can use it via `npx ng [command] [parameter]`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have globally installed the CLI, you can use it with `ng [command] [parameter]`. Otherwise, you can use it via `npx ng [command] [parameter]`.
```

=== NgModule

> `NgModule` defines a module that contains components, directives, pipes and providers. If you use `angular cli` to create components, directives etc. the entries are added automatically. Otherwise, you have to add it manually in the right section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`NgModule` defines a module that contains components, directives, pipes and providers. If you use the Angular CLI to create components, directives etc. the entries are added automatically. Otherwise, you have to add it manually in the right section.
```

=== Creating a new component

> In the next step, create a new component and add it to the routing file and the menu so it can be accessed in the UI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, create a new component and add it to the routing file and the menu. This lets you access your UI in plentymarkets.
```
Ich finde es ist nicht eindeutig was für eine UI hier gemeint ist. Aber es geht doch darum, die eigene View im Backend zugänglich zu machen, oder?

Author: Hier geht es um die plugin UI. Passe ich an.

To do so, proceed as follows:

. Run the command `ng generate component view/my-new-view`. +
→ This command generates all necessary files in `plugin-terra-basic/src/app/views/my-new-view` and adds the component to the closest module - in this case `PluginTerraBasicModule`.

The following files will be generated:
* my-new-view.component.html -> Template file for your html Code
* my-new-view.component.scss -> Styles for your template. Supports scss Format. Delete this and the `styleUrls` entry in the .ts file if you have no custom styles.
* my-new-view.component.spec.ts -> File for unit testing
* my-new-view.component.ts -> Here goes your view logic

> The generated code.ts file looks like the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The generated `code.ts` file looks like the following:
```

.my-new-view.component.ts
[source,ts]
----
include::example$my-new-view.component.ts[]
----

== Navigation

Next, implement some logic to navigate to a different view. You need to create a new route for this. To do so, proceed as follows:

. Open `src/app/plugin-terra-basic.routing.ts`.
. Add the following to the `plugin-terra-basic.routing.ts` right after the entry for `ExampleViewComponent`.

.plugin-terra-basic.routing.ts
[source,ts]
----
include::example$plugin-terra-basic.routing.ts[]
----

=== Adding a menu entry

To create a new menu entry, use `TerraNodeTree`. This component defines a tree structure made up of nodes that can be used to render a multi-level menu tree.

To do so, add the following to the ngOnInit() method in `main-menu.component.ts`.
The menu entries are shown in the order in which they are added.

.main-menu.component.ts
[source,ts]
----
include::example$main-menu.component.ts[]
----

=== Adding table and filter

Next, add a table and a filter that will appear when clicking on your new menu entry.
To do so, the following steps are necessary:

. Open `src/app/views/my-new-view/my-new-view.component.htm`.

> . Replace the automatically generated html code with the one shown below. The `terra-2-col` tag separates the screen into two parts (left and right).

Reviewer: Wäre der zweite Satz besser als Callout?

Author: Du meinst den Satz "Replace..."? Aber trifft das nicht auf das komplette Code-Bsp. zu? Also wo packe ich dann das <1> hin?

Reviewer: Nein, ich meine den zweiten Satz von dem zweiten Schritt, also "The terra-2-col...", sorry. Du kannst den Callout entweder an die erste Zeile packen oder an die erste und letzte, also an beiden Stellen `<1>`.

Außerdem ist mir gerade noch aufgefallen, dass im ersten Schritt beim Dateinamen htm steht statt html.

Open the `src/app/services` folder. It already contains the `contact.service.ts` file. To create a new service you can use `ng generate service` and then enter `services/contact` when prompted for a name, or by creating it manually. When using the generate option, you will also be provided with a spec file which you can use to create tests.

.src/app/services/contact.service.ts
[source,ts]
----
include::example$contact-service.ts[]
----

To use the service and be able to send REST calls, you need to get an authentication token.
To do so, proceed as follows:

. Log in to your plentymarkets system.
. Open your browser dev tools.
. Right click and click on `Inspect`.
. Go to `Application`.
. Open `Local Storage`.
. Click on your connection example: http://master.login.plentymarkets.com. +
→ This will open a list where you can copy the `accessToken`.
. Open `plugin-terra-basic.component.ts` and go to `line 17`.
. Paste the copied token into the `accessToken` variable. +
*_Tip:_* To avoid errors while accessing the `accessToken`, use the <<#_enabling_cross_origin, Allow-Control-Allow-Origin plugin>>. +
→  You are ready to use the service.

> [TIP]

Reviewer: Ist das ein Hinweis oder eher eine Warnung?

Author: Aufgrund der errors würde wohl eine Warnung besser passen.

.Token changes when login expires
====
Note that the token will change every time your login session expires. This means you may have to repeat this step several times during the course of development.
====

=== Linking your service to the module

If you used the generate option, the service should be added to the module automatically.
If not, you may need to add it to the `NgModule` manually.

.src/app/plugin-terra-basic.module.ts
[source,ts]
----
include::example$plugin-terra-basic.module.ts[]
----

<1> Import the service.
<2> Add the service to providers.

=== Using the DataSource for the Plugin Terra-Basic

The Terra-Components provide you with the base class of a fully functional DataSource that can be used in the DataSource for your table. It’s called *TerraTableDataSource*.
To use it, proceed as follows:

. Provide a generic type for it.
. Inject the service from which you will get the data in your created data-sources constructor.

> . In the request method of your DataSource, return an observable of the type *TerraPagerInterface*<type specified for the DataSource> if you want a paginated result or just of the generic type which emits your data. +

Reviewer: Zwei Anmerkungen:

1. Gibt es einen Grund, warum wir hier einen Platzhalter verwenden und nicht einen festen Wert angeben, der für das vorliegende Beispiel gültig ist?
2. Ich fände es besser, wenn wir in der Anweisung entweder die Pagination beschreiben oder den generischen Typ, aber nicht beides. Wenn es sich dabei nur im normale Angular-Logik handelt, kann der andere Teil meiner Meinung nach ganz weg. Wenn es irgendeine Speziallogik ist, vielleicht in einem Callout oder einem Hinweis erwähnen.

Author: Habe hier mit den Devs Rücksprache gehalten. Hier wird ein Platzhalter verwendet, weil es dafür keinen spezifischen Wert gibt bzw. nicht geben darf.
